Racial disparities in cancer outcomes persist despite recent improvements in mortality, prompting investigations into the prognostic interplay of biological, individual, and social factors. Preclinical and case report evidence have shown that malformed red blood cells present in individuals with inherited hemoglobin variants such as sickle cell trait can interact with the tumor microenvironment to induce treatment failure and systemic adverse events. Hemoglobinopathies are disproportionately prevalent among African American/Blacks (AA/B) compared to non-Hispanic whites (NHW), but the distinct and synergistic effects of hemoglobin variants with treatment completion and adverse events on cancer survival is unknown. 

Given this lack of background understanding, multiple statistical approaches were employed to quantify the contribution of hemoglobinopathies to black-white differences in cancer-related outcomes in a large observational study cohort.

We identified 162,357 older breast (n=75,633) and prostate (n=86,904) cancer patients diagnosed 2007-2013 using the SEER-Medicare linked database. AA/B and NHW patients were grouped by hemoglobinopathy status (AA/B+, AA/B-, NHW-) and three-way propensity score weighting using generalized boosted models (GBM) was performed to control for imbalances in demographic and clinicopathological features across study groups. The relative risk (RR) of treatment failure and occurrence of one or more adverse event was modeled using a modified Poisson regression approach with robust error variance, and interactions between treatment completion and adverse events by hemoglobinopathy status were evaluated for their relative contributions to all-cause, cancer-specific, and competing risks survival.

After propensity score weighting, no significant association was observed in treatment completion status between AA/B+ and AA/B- or NHW-. Among treated patients, however, AA/B+ status conferred increased RR of experiencing one or more adverse event compared to either AA/B- (RR: 1.15, 95% CI: 1.07 – 1.24) or NHW- (RR: 1.18, 95% CI: 1.10 – 1.26). The all-cause, cancer-specific, and competing risks mortality hazard for AA/B+ was proportionally higher among patients who both completed treatment and experienced one or more adverse event compared to AA/B- and NHW-, suggesting that hemoglobinopathies modify the effects of treatment completion and adverse events on survival. This study illustrates the robustness of findings across multiple analytical techniques for use in a complex data environment, and provides novel evidence of hemoglobinopathies as prognostic biomarkers in cancer.
