  In the era of big data, there has been an increasing need in using data
  integrated from disparate sources to conduct statistical analysis. The
  potential benefits from data integration, however, may be compromised by the
  induced data uncertainty due to incomplete/imperfect linkage, causing
  potential bias in statistical inference. It is thus pivotal to take into
  account the uncertainty associated with data integration.  Motivated by a
  suicide prevention study, we consider a survival analysis setup to handle
  uncertainty event records arising from data integration.  Specifically, a
  survival dataset constructed from hospital discharge fails to capture the
  events of interest for all the subjects, and the missing events may be
  recovered from a complete death record database that contains all the event
  records of a much larger population.  Nonetheless, the original dataset can
  only be linked to the database by matching basic characteristics of
  subjects. As such, a censored subject from the original dataset could find
  multiple possible event times in the second database, which may or may not
  contain the true event time.  We propose an extended the Cox regression
  approach, in which such uncertainty and mismeasurement of survival data are
  modeled probabilistically. The estimation procedure is derived in the spirit
  of expectation conditional maximization (ECM) algorithm and profile likelihood
  function.  It takes regular the Cox model as a special case and reduces to the
  Cox model when there is not uncertainty in the data.  The performance of the
  proposed method is evaluated through simulation studies.  The proposed method
  outperforms the naive approaches under slight and severe censoring when the
  data matching leads to more true outcomes than noise. We show that the extend
  Cox model is practically attractive by applying it to the 2005--2012 suicide
  attempt data from the State of Connecticut, which suggests interesting and
  insightful results.
