Authorship attribution is a classification problem with two main objectives: 1) to accurately predict some characteristic of a piece of text (e.g. authorship), and 2) to provide a descriptive model of writing that contributes to our knowledge of language.  This article presents an assortative mixture model of English parts of speech that accurately predicts authorship in a supervised learning environment.  By  measuring the tendency for same parts of speech to collocate, the model offers a detailed and unbiased glimpse into the stylometric features of grammar.   Assortative mixture is a single coefficient that can be applied to each part of speech in a word graph to generate a small but inclusive feature set.  Comprised of only a single estimator, the assortative mixture model is simple yet captures many fundamental language characteristics including what grammar types exhibit selective linking.  As a network graph model, words are vertices and edges represent sequential words (i.e. word bigrams or adjacencies) that appear in a sample of writing.  To calculate assortativity and generate a feature set, vertices have as an attribute a part of speech that can be compared to other vertices.  Such graphs are not new to the literature, however, previous models ignore grammar or fail to represent all grammar types due to computational limitations or deliberate choice of the model.  Research on word graphs sought to discover predictive features using network analysis but did not include the part of speech as an attribute of a vertex.  These studies showed that other descriptive characteristics such as transitivity, density, degree assortativity, etc., do not stand alone as significant predictors in a feature set.   By comparison,  grammar assortativity alone is highly predictive of authorship.  The statistical analysis of graphs aided with an accurate speech tagger empowers a more mathematically descriptive examination of grammar now that entire collections of writing can be tagged efficiently.